# 🐍 Learning Python at the University of Glasgow

This repository contains **lecture notes** (.ipynb) and **slides** (.html) for *Learning Python Programming* at *James Watt School of Engineering, University of Glasgow (UoG)*. 

🔺**Remark** 

Although this repository is available to students taking the course "ENG3092: Mechanical Engineering Skills 3" taught at UoG, it is prepared for a wide group of audiences who want to learn Python at their own space. With this in mind, the repository is pefectly suitable for the course "ENG2083: Introductory Programming 2".

📝 **Author and Contact**

- GitHub: khiemnguyen0407
- Email: khiem.nguyen@glasgow.ac.uk

## 📂 Repository Structure
| Directory | Description |
| :---------| :---------- |
| `lecture_notes` | Jupyter Notebook for lecture notes designed for each major topic in learning Python |
| `slides` | Quarto `.qmd` files and generated `.html` files for lecture slides |
| `slides/figures` | Contain subfolders each of which store the figures for one specific topic slide. For example, `slides/figures/python_functions` contain all the figures necessary for running/compiling `python_functions.qmd` |
| `slides/python_xxx` | Folders that are generated by running the corresponding `.qmd` files. For exmaple, by compiling `python_functions.qmd` the folder with name `python_functions_files` is generated. |
| `advanced_learning` | Contain lecture notes and code to learn advanced topics such as computing on GPUs, multithread computing |

## For students: Please read this
This repository is constantly updated throughout the semesters to reflect the questions raised in the lectures. Therefore, it is a good idea to download from time to time this repo and overwrite the old version in your local machine. I recommend you to download every two weeks or every week, especially when you see the new updates shown in the github.

**Download from GitHub Website**

- The easiest way is to download this repository from the Github https: [Link to this Repo](https://github.com/khiemnguyen0407/uog-python). Click on the **Green Tab** `<> Code` when you access the above link, and then choose `Download ZIP`. Unzip the entire downloaded `.zip` file.
- If you are familar with git control, then you can clone the the repository by using the `git` command. Note that you can copy this command by hoving the mouse to the command, and then the *copy icon* appears on the right of the banner.

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/khiemnguyen0407/uog-python
    ```

    After cloning the repo, you can update this repo by pulling the new content from time to time with the command

    ```bash
    git pull
    ```

## Directory `lecture_notes`
The lecture notes are prepared in Jupyter Notebook format. Students at James Watt School of Engineering, UoG only need to study up to lecture $8$ for plotting in Python.

Currently, the lecture notes cover:

1. Variables and operators
2. Control flows
3. Built-in data structures
4. Functions
5. Object-oriented programming
6. NumPy
7. Matplotlib
8. Errors and exceptions

## Directory `slides`
The slides are prepared using Quarto with `format: revealjs`. You can examine `.qmd` files which are nothing but Markdown and python code. Quarto renders the `.qmd` file to an `.html` that can be read on any web browser. You need to put the corresponding `filenameXXX_files` in the same path at which the file `filenameXXX.html` is. For example, `python_functions.html` must be in the same path of the folder `python_functions_files`.

Currently, the slides cover:

| Topic | `.html` file | `.qmd` file |
|:------| :------------| :-----------|
| Recap of basic Python | `python_recap.html` | `python_recap.qmd` |
| Functions | `python_functions.html` | `python_functions.qmd` |
| Object-oriented programming | `python_oop.html` | `python_oop.qmd` |
| Special methods in OOP | `python_special_methods.html` | `python_special_methods.qmd` |
| NumPy library | `python_numpy.html` | `python_numpy.qmd` |


